 Hello everyone, this is the introduction video for the Artificial Intelligence course that I will be taking this semester. My name is Mossam, I am a professor at IIT Delhi. I finished my PhD in 2007 from University of Washington Seattle where I worked in the field of AI. I was there for the fact as a faculty member for six years until 2013 and I moved back to IIT Delhi at the time in 2013 and from since then I have been in Delhi teaching students at IIT Delhi. And I have been taking this AI course, I have taught it several times and after you know taking it five six times I felt like the course content had come to a certain roundedness and finesse that we could do an NPTEL course for it. I am really excited that we have recorded some fantastic lectures as part of the NPTEL program. This is a 12 week course. It is primarily going to be for the undergraduate students. It is an introductory course. So, as you may imagine that AI as a field has become extremely popular, extremely well known. These days a lot of newspapers are writing about AI, the our Prime Minister Modi has also done has a policy for AI now, Nithya Yoga has brought out an AI document everywhere in the world people are talking about AI and it is sort of the amount of interest that the field is getting is phenomenal. So, I hope that many of you are interested in learning about the subject. Now, of course, the subject is huge. AI itself is more the philosophy and less a particular material course materials. So, when we take the course we have to make some choices about what is it that we want to cover and what is it that we want to go into the depth in. I have taken the view that this is an undergraduate introductory course. So, in what that means is that we will cover a lot of topics. We will cover them at a certain level of depth but not too much. So, it will be a breadth oriented course. This would be a course from where you would be able to understand the various facets of intelligence and computational intelligence and how we model it how we model intelligence computationally. And then from there on you would be able to go into advanced study from the basics that we have covered in this course. So, we will cover the philosophy of AI what does it mean for the machine to be intelligent, what are the various ways in which machine can be considered intelligent, what are the various tasks that demonstrate machine intelligence and then we will talk about the traditional AI as well as the modern AI. So, in the traditional AI I mean you may or may or may not be aware that AI already has almost 60 plus years of history right. So, with such a long history we cannot obviously cover everything and not everything is relevant today but we will give you a feel, a flavor for the lot of topic. So, we will talk about the traditional AI, the search or the interview, the knowledge representation of the interview. But then we will talk more about the modern AI also which is more machine learning oriented view. And again this would not be a machine learning course. So, we will not cover a lot of topics that will be covered in a typical machine learning course. But we will introduce the concepts and we will talk about reinforcement learning which is one part of machine learning which often machine learning courses do not cover. So, we will take that particular topic and we will study deeply inside the AI course. Even within modern there are now two branches. So, the typical modern AI was very probabilistic statistical whereas, the very modern like the developments that have been happening in the last 2 or 3 years have been of 5 years that have been using neural models. So, we will cover both the probabilistic AI, the statistically AI as well as we will cover the more neural the deep learning AI. We will obviously keep them at a very basic level, but you would get the right concepts so that you can study it further in subsequent courses. We will follow one book. The book is called Artificial Intelligence Modern Approach by Stuart Russell and Peter Novich. Stuart Russell is a well-known professor in Berkeley and Peter Novich is a very well-known researcher in Google and they have both written this book which is almost like a Bible of AI and we will not be able to cover the full Bible because it has many many chapters. We will cover about 50 percent of the book in this particular course. So, I think you would enjoy the course. We will not only talk about the computational techniques, but we will also take detours here and there talking about stories about how AI evolved. What can we as humans learn from AI? How can AI model primate behavior, monkeys behavior and so on so forth? So, we will take several interesting detours and make the course fun and interesting and engaging. I hope you take it. I hope you enjoyed. Thank you very much.